# Lateral Movement Datasets - LMD Dataset Collections

LM Datasets (LMD) is the first, to our knowledge, EVTX origined dataset and currently the only benchmark corpus comprising of Sysmon logs. Two separate folders are enclosed within the specified git repository, namely **LMD-2022** and **LMD-2023** respectively. The former is related to the first version of LMD that was created in 2022 as supplementary experimental material for the presented Endpoint-Detection and Response policy in **Smiliotopoulos, C.; Barmpatsalou , K.; Kambourakis, G. Revisiting the Detection of Lateral Movement through Sysmon. Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 7746. https://doi.org/10.3390/app12157746**. On the other hand the latter is the enhanced equivalent of the 2022 version with more LM attacks and various versions to serve as the base for the execution of LM Machine Learning (ML) experiments, both Shallow and Deep Learning.

## LMD-2022

The **2022 LMD version (LMD-2022)** incorporates normal and malicious traffic logs originated from the execution of nine state-of-the-art LM techniques, including four variants of the so-called * *Exploitation of Remote Services* * LM methodology and five equivalents * *credential exploitation techniques* * . The attacks were recorded under the MS Windows Domain testbed presented in **https://doi.org/10.3390/app12157746**. Specifically, the nine assaults range from the execution of the legacy Exploitation of Remote Services techniques via the * *ms17-010* * , * *EternalBlue* * and * *Bluekeep* * Windows vulnerabilities, to the more advanced deployment of the * *WannaCry* * malware and more elevated ones, including * *Pass the Hash (PtH)* * , * *Pass the Ticket (PtT)* * , * *Golden Ticket (GT)* * , * *Silver Ticket (ST)* * and credential exploitation with * *LaZagne Project tool* * .

As shown in the highlighted box that follows, the LMD-2022 corpus comprises four subsets that were thoroughly presented in **https://doi.org/10.3390/app12157746** , namely * *Normal* *, * *NormalVsMalicious01* * , * *NormalVsMalicious02* * , and * *FullSet* *. Specifically, the * *Normal* * subset incorporates logs related to legitimate network traffic that were collected prior and during the execution of nine executed LM techniques, namely * *Exploitation of Remote Services (EoRS)* * (four variants of EoRS techniques) and * *Exploitation of Hashing Techniques (EoHT)* * (five variants of EoHT techniques). More precisely, * *NormalVsMalicious01* * set of logs encloses the traffic that was captured before, during and upon termination of the * *Exploitation of Remote Services (ERS)* * attacks category, while * *NormalVsMalicious02* * comprises logs collected during the execution of the five aforesaid distinct credentials exploitation techniques. Both, * *NormalVsMalicious01* * and * *NormalVsMalicious02* * are mixed with normal traffic logs respectively. Finally, * *FullSet* * is the fusion of the three aforesaid distinct subsets.

		- Normal 80,000 (Legitimate network traffic (LNT))
		- NormalVsMalicious01 290,000 (LNT, EoRS (ms17-010, EternalBlue, Bluekeep, WannaCry))
		- NormalVsMalicious02 415,000 (LNT, EoHT (PtH, PtT, GT, ST [via Mimikatz], LaZagne Project))
		- FullSet 870,000 (LNT, EoRS, EoHT)
    
## LMD-2023
